CHAPTER 1
1.1 AGRICULTURE
      Agriculture is the art and science of cultivating the soil, growing crops and raising livestock. It includes the preparation of plant and animal products for people to use and their distribution to markets. Agriculture provides most of the world’s food and fabrics. Cotton, wool, and leather are all agricultural products. Agriculture also provides wood for construction and paper products.                                                                                                                                 
These products, as well as the agricultural methods used, may vary from one part of the world to another.    
         Over centuries, the growth of agriculture contributed to the rise of civilizations.
Before agriculture became widespread, people spent most of their lives searching for food—hunting wild animals and gathering wild plants. About 11,500 years ago, people gradually learned how to grow cereal and root crops, and settled down to a life based on farming. By 2,000 years ago, much of the Earth’s population had become dependent on agriculture. Scholars are not sure why this shift to farming took place, but it may have occurred because of climate change.
      When people began growing crops, they also began herding and breeding wild animals. Adapting wild plants and animals for people to use is called domestication.
The first domesticated plant was probably rice or corn. Chinese farmers were cultivating rice as early as 7500 BCE.

The first domesticated animals were dogs, which were used for hunting. Sheep and goats were probably domesticated next. People also domesticated cattle and pigs. Most of these animals had once been hunted for hides and meat. Now many of them are also sources of milk, cheese, and butter. Eventually, people used domesticated animals such as oxen for plowing, pulling, and transportation.
 
                                                       Fig 1.1 Farming        
Electricity first became a power source on farms in Japan and Germany in the early 1900s. By 1960, most farms in the U.S. and other developed countries were electrified. Electricity lit farm buildings and powered such machinery as water pumps, milking machines, and feeding equipment. Today, electricity controls entire environments in livestock barns and poultry houses.

Traditionally, farmers have used a variety of methods to protect their crops from pests and diseases. They have put herb-based poisons on crops, handpicked insects off plants, bred strong varieties of crops, and rotated crops to control insects. Now, almost all farmers, especially in developed countries, rely on chemicals to control pests. The definition of “pest” ranges from insects to animals such as rabbits and mice, as well as weeds and disease-causing organisms—bacteria, viruses, and fungi. With the use of chemicals, crop losses and prices have declined dramatically.

For thousands of years, farmers relied on natural fertilizer—materials such as manure, wood ash, ground bones, fish or fish parts, and bird and bat waste called guano—to replenish or increase nutrients in the soil.
Now, many farmers use chemical fertilizers with nitrates and phosphates because they greatly increase crop yields.
1.2 GLOBAL AGRICULTURAL SCENARIO
       A system of agriculture built on economic and regulatory practices that are global in scope and organization. Agribusiness: The mass production of agricultural products; a form of large-scale commercial agriculture
Agricultural development is one of the most powerful tools to end extreme poverty, boost shared prosperity and feed a projected 9.7 billion people by 2050. Growth in the agriculture sector is two to four times more effective in raising incomes among the poorest compared to other sectors. Analyses in 2016 found that 65 percent of poor working adults made a living through agriculture.
Agriculture is also crucial to economic growth: in 2018, it accounted for 4 percent of global gross domestic product (GDP) and in some developing countries, it can account for more than 25% of GDP.
But agriculture-driven growth, poverty reduction, and food security are at risk: Climate change could cut crop yields, especially in the world’s most food-insecure regions. Agriculture, forestry and land use change are responsible for about 25 percent of greenhouse gas emissions. Mitigation in the agriculture sector is part of the solution to climate change

 
Fig 1.2 Population depends on agriculture
1.3 INDIAN AGRICULTURAL SCENARIO
      Around 51% of India s geographical area is already under cultivation as compared to 11% of the world average. The present cropping intensity of 136% has registered an increase of only 25% since independence.
Despite many setbacks, Indian agricultural scenario has surely undergone many drastic changes and has achieved many milestones. The green revolution (1967-1978) transformed India from a food deficient stage to a surplus food market. In a span of 3 decades, India established itself as a net exporter of food grains.

Interestingly, some developed countries, mainly Canada, which were facing a scarcity in agricultural labour, were so impressed by the results of India's Green Revolution that they showed interest in allowing farmers experienced in the methods of the Green Revolution to their own country. Many farmers from Punjab and Haryana states were then sent to Canada by GOI to settle there. That's why today one can see thousands of Punjabi-speaking citizens in Canada.

Also in the Indian context, worth mentioning are the significant results achieved in the fields of dairying and oil seeds through our white and yellow revolutions respectively.
As of now, in terms of agricultural output, India is ranked second in the world. India is also the largest producer in the world for milk, cashew nuts, coconuts, tea, ginger, turmeric and black pepper. India also boosts of the largest cattle population (193 million) in the whole world.
Our country is also the second largest producer of wheat, rice, sugar, groundnut and inland fish. India is the third largest producer of tobacco.

India is home to 10 per cent of the world fruit production with first rank in the production of fruits like banana and sapota.

Presently, Indian Agriculture is witnessing a phase of diversification. During recent years, much awareness has been generated on shifting to high-yielding varieties (HYV) of crops from conventional crops. This has enabled a successful transition in Indian Agriculture from its stagnation to a growth path.
The competitive advantages that Indian agriculture can surely boost of are:
•	Favorable Agro-climatic Zones
•	Huge irrigated lands
•	Enough supply of Skilled, educated, technical and scientific workforce suitable for this field.
 
                                                    Fig 1.3 Indian agriculture.
Increasing population and related food demand always remain the most imperative challenges for the developing world. It could only be attained by an increased agricultural production based on external inputs like mineral fertilizers and pesticides during the twentieth century. The green revolution-based modern agricultural practices have resulted in the substantial increase in grain yield at the cost of natural resource degradation. The externalization of agriculture led to a considerable decline in soil fertility and environmental resilience. It calls for a different approach which should educate the farmers to utilize their traditional knowledge to produce more grains using less external inputs. 
This approach is known as sustainable agriculture which is the need of the hour, at present. The sustainable agriculture practices are derived from the amalgamation of traditionally adapted healthy practices with a modern development of agricultural systems. Thus, sustainable agricultural practices are supposed to be resource-conservative and resilient to the present climate change scenario. Moreover, a higher proportion of traditional inputs either in the form of resources or the knowledge may encompass the socio-economic balance among different societies. In this review, a brief insight has been given on the concept of sustainable agriculture, its need in the present scenario and a critical assessment in terms of challenges and opportunities for overall sustainability in developing nations by considering India as a model country. How the integration of traditional knowledge and modern agriculture practices will improve the agricultural productivity, soil quality and health as well as socio-economic balance, has also been discussed in terms of research opportunities. 



1.4 TYPES OF AGRICULTURAL PRACTICES    
      There are different types of agricultural production system depending on the type of crop and use. The types of feed or row crop grown by farmers depends on the traditional, organic or conventional management systems available. Crop Production and management of corn, cotton, wheat, soybean and tobacco crops generates profit to the farmers. Crop production also includes feed sources and resource inputs used to produce crops required to maintain the dairy herd and contribute to the meat industry.
Feeds grown include corn grain or silage; alfalfa hay and silage; soybean and soybean meal; oats; wheat; distiller’s grains solids. 
 
Fig 1.4 Farming practices




1.5 TRADITIONAL METHORD

1.5.1 AGRO FORESTRY
          Agroforestry is a land use management system in which trees or shrubs are grown around or among crops or pastureland. This diversification of the farming system initiates an agro ecological succession, like that in natural ecosystems, and so starts a chain of events that enhance the functionality and sustainability of the farming system. Trees also produce a wide range of useful and marketable products from fruits/nuts, medicines, wood products, etc. This intentional combination of agriculture and forestry has multiple benefits, such as greatly enhanced yields from staple food crops, enhanced farmer livelihoods from income generation, increased biodiversity, improved soil structure and health, reduced erosion, and carbon sequestration.

 
                                                    Fig 1.5 Agro Forestry

 Agroforestry is any sustainable land-use system that maintains or increases total yields by combining food crops (annuals) with tree crops (perennials) and/or livestock on the same unit of land, either alternately or at the same time. 

1.5.2 CROP ROTATION
          Crop rotation is the practice of planting different crops sequentially on the same plot of land to improve soil health, optimize nutrients in the soil, and combat pest and weed pressure.
          Growing the same crop in the same place for many years in a row, known as mono cropping, gradually depletes the soil of certain nutrients and selects for a highly competitive pest and weed community. Without balancing nutrient use and diversifying pest and weed communities, the productivity of monocultures is highly dependent on external inputs. Conversely, a well designed crop rotation can reduce the need for synthetic fertilizers and herbicides by better using ecosystem services from a diverse set of crops. Additionally, crop rotations can improve soil structure and organic matter, which reduces erosion and increases farm system resilience. 
          
 
                                                           Fig 1.6 Crop Rotation

1.5.3 INTERCROPPING 
          Intercropping is the cultivation of two or more crops simultaneously on the same field. The most common goal of intercropping is to produce a greater yield on a given piece of land by making use of resources or ecological processes that would otherwise not be utilized by a single crop.
          Intercropping is growing two or more crops together at the same time in the same space in a beneficial manner. Row intercropping is working this arrangement with at least one of the components being planted in rows. Strip intercropping is a more industrialized version with rows of individual crops big enough to be harvested with machinery. Mixed intercropping is more like what we imagine as a guild, in which plants are bunched together more naturally but in purposeful ways. Relay intercropping is when the plants being intercropped are timed so that they are planted as the others are between flowering and harvesting.
These are the basic four methods commonly employed. Sometimes they involve annual grains and vegetables, such as the mixed intercropping classic of corn, beans and squash. Sometimes there are perennial species with annual crops grown amongst them, say perennial garlic and basil with annual tomatoes. Perennials also work well with other perennials. In parts of the tropics, bananas, papayas, coffee, vanilla and cacao make a crackerjack intercropping team. 
 
Fig 1.7 Intercropping
1.6 AUTOMATED FARMING
      Farm automation, often associated with “smart farming”, is technology that makes farms more efficient and automates the crop or livestock production cycle. An increasing number of companies are working on robotics innovation to develop drones, autonomous tractors, robotic harvesters, automatic watering, and seeding robots. Although these technologies are fairly new, the industry has seen an increasing number of traditional agriculture companies adopt farm automation into their processes.

 
                                                  Fig 1.8 Farm automation

The future of farming lies in collecting and analyzing real-time agricultural data in order to maximize efficiency. According to the estimates of Business Insider’s premium research service, BI Intelligence – the IoT device installations in agriculture will increase to 5 million in 2020. As farms become more connected, the efficiency is expected to improve in the coming decades.
As per the estimates of On Farm, a provider of connected farm automation solutions, an average farm will generate about 4.1 million data points per day by 2050, an increase from 190,000 in 2014. 
1.7 COMPARISON BETWEENTRADITIONAL & AUTOMATED
      In traditional farming, farmers need labors for handling crops and livestock. ... But, with IoT-powered system, the farmers can gather data specifically related to crop farming like temperature, rainfall, soil quality, etc. At the same time, they can monitor the health of livestock and adjust their nutrition accordingly.

 
                          Fig 1.9 Comparison between small scale farm & smart farm


Traditional farming:
1) Uses manure & compost
2) More farm labours & no machines
3) Depended on seasonal rainfall
4) Animals are used to plough the field                                                                                                                                          

Modern farming:
1) Uses chemical fertilizers
2) Less farm labours & more machines
3) Well occupied irrigation system and so not dependent on seasonal rainfall.
4) Tractors used for plough the field
5) Production is more but the crops are of less quality.











CHAPTER 2
2.1 SMART FARMING
Smart Farming is focused on the use of data acquired through various sources (historical, geographical and instrumental) in the management of farm activities. Technologically advanced doesn’t essentially mean that it is a smart system. Smart systems differentiate themselves through their ability to record the data and make sense out of it. Smart farming employs hardware (IoT) and software (SaaS) to capture the data and give actionable insights to manage all the operations on the farm, both pre and post harvest. The data is organized, accessible all the time and full of data on every aspect of finance and field operations that can be monitored from anywhere in the world.

 
Fig 2.1 Smart farming
HOW AUTOMATION AND ROBOTICS HELP
   IoT (Internet of Things) in agriculture involves sensors, drones and robots connected through internet which function automatically and semi automatically performing operations and gathering data aimed at increasing efficiency and predictability. With increasing demands and shortage of labor across the globe, agriculture automation and robots or commonly known as Agribots are starting to gain attention among farmers. Crop production decreased by an estimated 213 crores approx ($3.1 billion) a year due to labor shortages in the USA alone. Recent advancements in sensors and AI technology that lets machines to train on their surroundings has made agrobots more notable. The world is in the early stages of an ag robotics revolution with most of the products still in trial phases and R&D mode.
Semiautomatic robots with arms can detect weeds and spray pesticides in the affected plants, saving up the plants as well as overall pesticide costs. These robots can also be used in harvesting and lifting. Heavy farming vehicles can also be navigated from the comfort of homes through phone screens to perform tasks and GPS can track their positions at every time.

 
                                         Fig 2.2 Remote monitoring system

Drones equipped with sensors and cameras are used for imaging, mapping and surveying the farms. They can be remotely controlled or they can fly automatically through software-controlled flight plans in their embedded systems, working in coordination with sensors and GPS. From the drone data, insights can be drawn regarding crop health, irrigation, spraying, planting, soil and field, plant counting and yield prediction and much more.
IoT based remote sensing utilizes sensors placed along the farms like weather stations for gathering data which is transmitted to analytical tool for analysis. They monitor the crops for changes in light, humidity, temperature, shape and size. The data collected by sensors in terms of humidity, temperature, moisture precipitation and dew detection helps in determining the weather pattern in farms so that cultivation is done for suitable crops. The analysis of quality of soil helps in determining the nutrient value and drier areas of farms, soil drainage capacity or acidity, which allows to adjust the amount of water needed for irrigation and the opt most beneficial type of cultivation. Computer imaging involves the use of sensor cameras installed at different corners of the farm or drones equipped with cameras to produce images which undergo digital image processing. 
The images are used for quality control, disease detection, sorting and grading yield and irrigation monitoring through Image processing combined with machine learning which uses images from database to compare with images of crops to determine the size, shape, color and growth therefore controlling the quality.





2.2 TYPES OF SMART AUTOMATION
       There are many types of IoT sensors and IoT applications that can be used in agriculture:
•	Monitoring of Climate Conditions
•	Greenhouse Automation
•	Crop Management
•	Cattle Monitoring and Management
•	End-to-End Farm Management Systems


2.2.1 GREEN HOUSE AUTOMATION
            IoT enabled Greenhouse automation is the technical approach through which the sensitive crops are enabled to perform well under regularly monitored and controlled conditions. Through this approach, farmers get benefited by automatic monitoring and optimal control of the greenhouse environment with minimal human intervention. Automation helps tailor an environment for crops that offer reactive solutions to outside influences that may otherwise affect the yield of your crops.

 
Fig 2.3 Automated greenhouse system
Automated greenhouse is to ease people when they wish to grow plants. It helps to monitor the situation, when they are not at home. The main aim of this paper is to minimize the human care needed for the plant by automating the green house and monitor the in-house environment status.

 

Fig 2.4 Automated greenhouse working system
2.2.2 SMART IRRIGATION
              Smart irrigation system takes a multi faced approach by monitoring soil conditions, weather changes, evaporation rates, and plant water use to determine and adjust a watering schedule. The system automatically determines Start/ Stop of watering and executes irrigation without human intervention.
 
                                              Fig 2.5 Smart irrigation system

Various sensors are used according to the crop requirement for continuous monitoring and cloud based controlling of the environment in a smart greenhouse.

2.2.3 SMART SENSING
         The most popular smart agriculture gadgets are weather stations, combining various smart farming sensors. Located across the field, they collect various data from the environment and send it to the cloud. The provided measurements can be used to map the climate conditions, choose the appropriate crops, and take the required measures to improve their capacity.
 
                                      Fig 2.6 Monitoring of climate conditions

Smart sensors are used in precision agriculture to impart data that helps farmers monitor and optimize crops, and keep up with changing environmental factors. By positioning sensors, farmers can understand their crops at a micro scale, sustain resources, and reduce environmental impact.
Smart sensing system is made up of minimal hard ware components and integrated with advanced multi point soil moisture sensing technology that can communicate with the cloud to provide automatic alerting to farmers for necessary interventions to be made at the farm.

 
Fig 2.7 Smart sensing system









2.2.4 SMART FERTIGATION
         Smart fertigation is a technology designed to work on the principles of “Right input at the right place at the right time” providing balanced nutrition and eliminating guess- based application by farmers.
This system allows the farmer to use fertilizers in his or her field in an optimum way. The advantages of this system are described below.

 
Fig 2.8 Smart fertigation.


1) The accuracy of fertilizer input: One of the major advantages of using this system in the field is to use fertilizer optimally. Modern fertigation systems come with sophisticated injectors. These injectors allow you to regulate the amount of fertilizer you wish to use in your field. This reduces the chance of high use of fertilizer thereby reducing the input cost and also preventing a pH imbalance in the soil.
2) Accurate nutrient mix: Smart fertigation system allows you to provide an accurate nutrient mix for your crop. It helps you to regulate the flow of fertilizer and gives you the option of accurately providing nutrients that are important to ensure a healthy crop growth in the right proportion. Additionally, the fertigation system allows you to mix the fertilizer with water making it easier for the nutrients to reach every plant uniformly. This will go a long way in improving your crop yield leading to greater profitability.
3) The right timing: The system is extremely useful in providing the right amount of fertilizer at the right time of plant growth. Plants need fertilizers at different rates in different stages of their growth. This system allows you to regulate the release of fertilizer to the standing crop at different rates in sync with the plant growth. This is far more economical than other methods of fertilizer input; mainly through broadcast or band application method.
4) Customized way of fertilizer application: The fertigation system gives you the option of providing fertilizers at different rates in different sections of a field. In a single field, there may be variation in crop, soil content or growth stage. All these require different quantum of fertilizers for optimum crop yield. The fertigation system is of great help in such a situation. You can customize the application of fertilizer for different sections of the field at different times as per your requirement.
2.2.5 HYDROPONICS
         Hydroponic System is a system of growing crops without soil, often called soilless farming. In the hydroponic system, the plant roots grow in a liquid nutrient solution or inside the moist inert materials like Rockwool and Vermiculite. The liquid nutrient solution is a mixture of essential plant nutrients in the water.

 
Fig 2.9 Hydroponics farming
There are multiple approaches to designing hydroponic systems, but the core elements are essentially the same.
•	Fresh water. Where talking primo, filtered stuff with a balanced pH. Most plants like water with a pH level around 6–6.5. You can adjust the acidity of your water with over-the-counter solutions found at your local hardware, garden, or hydroponic store.
•	Oxygen. Don’t drown your plants! In traditional farming, roots can get the oxygen needed for respiration from pockets of air in the soil. Depending on your hydroponic setup, you will either need to leave space between the base of your plant and the water reservoir, or you’ll need oxygenate your container (think of bubbles in a fish tank), which you can accomplish by buying an air stone or installing an air pump.
•	Root Support. Even though you don’t need soil, your plant’s roots still need a little something to hold on to. Typical materials include vermiculite, perlite, peat moss, coconut fiber, and rock wool. Stay away from materials that might compact (like sand) or that don’t retain any moisture (like gravel).
•	Nutrients. Your plant is going to need plenty of magnesium, phosphorus, calcium, and other nutrients to stay healthy and productive –– just like plants growing in the ground need healthy soil and fertilizer. When you’re growing plants without soil, this “plant food” must be included in the water that’s feeding your plants. While you can technically make your own nutrient solution, it’s easy to buy mixtures online and in stores.
•	Light. If you’re growing your plants indoors, you might have to invest in some special lighting. Each kind of plant will have a different requirement for the amount of light it needs and for the placement of lights (typically referred to as Daily Light Integral or DLI).

 
         Fig 2.10 Root support of plant
2.2.6 BENEFITS OF SMART FARMING
Technologies and IoT have the potential to transform agriculture in many aspects. Namely, there are 5 ways IoT can improve agriculture:
•	Data, tons of data, collected by smart agriculture sensors:  weather conditions, soil quality, crop’s growth progress or cattle’s health. This data can be used to track the state of your business in general as well as staff performance, equipment efficiency, etc.
•	Better control over the internal processes and, as a result, lower production risks: The ability to foresee the output of your production allows you to plan for better product distribution. If you know exactly how much crops you are going to harvest, you can make sure your product won’t lie around unsold.
•	Cost management and waste reduction thanks to the increased control over the production: Being able to see any anomalies in the crop growth or livestock health, you will be able to mitigate the risks of losing your yield.
•	Increased business efficiency through process automation: By using smart devices, you can automate multiple processes across your production cycle, e.g. irrigation, fertilizing, or pest control.
•	Enhanced product quality and volumes: Achieve better control over the production process and maintain higher standards of crop quality and growth capacity through automation.




2.3 ROBOTS AND AUTONOMOUS MACHINE
      A wide range of technologies will enable the transition of agricultural robotics into the field. Some technologies will need to be developed specifically for agriculture, while other technologies already developed for other areas could be adapted to the agricultural domain, for example, autonomous vehicles, artificial intelligence and machine vision. Here we briefly review the current status, opportunities and benefits of various enabling technologies from hardware to software, multi-robot systems and human robot systems.
Agricultural platforms can be divided into domain- and task-specific robots designed to perform a specific task on a given crop in a pre-defined domain, and generic platforms designed to perform several tasks in different domains. Both are likely to play important roles. Since farms in general have very different infrastructure, early robots may be able to operate only on a given farm and only to a limited extent across different farms. Similarly to current farm vehicles, we may see therefore a combination of robots adapted to a specific task and the emergence of multi-purpose robots able to carry out a multitude of different tasks, analogous to the myriad use cases of the modern tractor. 







2.3.1 AUTOMATED TRACTORS
         Over the past years, we have seen headlines about self-driving cars and everybody went wow! Based on the trends in regards to the advancement of technology, it would not be a surprise if the same technology alters its phase within the coming years. However, what may come as a surprise is the quiet revolution within the farming industry that is slowly changing the way farmers approach their concept of agriculture and farming, in general. Presently, farmers in advanced countries are giving a tactical approach to how they plant, harvest, as well as maintain their crops. A good example of such technology is the use of autonomous tractors in agriculture.
The concept of autonomous tractors can be traced back prior to the introduction of the concept of precision farming in the eighties. During these days, farmers used GPS technology as a guide to the tractors across the farmland. The aim of such an approach the reduction of fuel consumption and enhancing the efficiency of the tractors and the farming activities. As such, these initial steps formed the basis for the development of autonomous tractors, following the introduction of technologies that improved communication over wireless devices. 
Autonomous tractors employ much the same approach as the driverless vehicles –uses advanced systems and sensors. With the inclusion of auto-steering abilities, such tractors have added control abilities. Evidently, the launch of the autonomous tractors is considerably a manifestation of the extended use of technology in farming.

 
Fig 2.11 Autonomous tractor
Autonomous tractors are driverless tractors which use modern technology to provide higher efficiency and minimize human intervention. ... They come with many benefits such as safety, fuel efficiency, sharing, and many others. The very concept of autonomous tractors is designed to revolutionize the agricultural industry.
Autonomous tractors can be controlled remotely or even pre-programmed to give full autonomy to a producer. Autonomous tractor delivers value to row crop farmers not just through a reduction in labor costs, but through increased efficiency across operations and increased yield.
Autonomous tractors employ much the same approach as the driverless vehicles –uses advanced systems and sensors. With the inclusion of auto-steering abilities, such tractors have added control abilities. Evidently, the launch of the autonomous tractors is considerably a manifestation of the extended use of technology in farming.

2.3.2 SEEDING & WEEDING ROBOTICS
            Robotics developed for seeding and weeding can target specific crop areas. In seeding, this can easily reduce labor and mundane tasks on the farm. Weeding robotics can be incredibly accurate and reduce pesticide usage by 90% with computer vision. Blue River Technology employs computer vision and robotics technologies to precisely spray herbicides only where needed and with exactly what’s needed. This gives farmers a new way to control and prevent herbicide-resistant weeds. eco robotics is another company that produces a weeding robot -- this is the first ever completely autonomous machine for a more ecological and economical weeding of row crows, meadows, and intercropping cultures.
Robots for planting are focused on the field’s specific area, and they work with great precision. This type of farming robot uses artificial intelligence and computer vision, which allows for a reduction of pesticides in the field and, subsequently, the production of high-quality food.
 
Fig 2.12 Seeding robots


2.3.3 HARVEST AUTOMATION
             Harvesting is one of the most labour intensive operations in agriculture, which is required to be done at appropriate time so as to obtain optimum yield. Delay in harvest will have a direct impact not only on the yield but also on quality of produce. Further, the method of harvest and wastage of produce are interlinked. Traditionally, harvesting is done manually in rural areas and particularly in small land holdings. However, in the situation where labour shortage is on a rise, harvesting through mechanical means has become inevitable. Though various machinery is available, combine harvester has been widely in use. Presently the availability of combine harvesters are not spread uniformly and therefore needs to be transported to long distance. Therefore the model schemes intends to make the machinery available locally so as to reduce the operation cost and facilitate timely harvest operation.
         The modern combined harvester, or simply combine, is a versatile machine designed to efficiently harvest a variety of grain crops. The name derives from its combining four separate harvesting operations—reaping, threshing, gathering, and winnowing—into a single process.
A combine harvester is essential equipment for the modern farm combine harvester is useful machinery invented by scientists for effective harvesting of crops and grains. The combine harvester, or simply combine, is a machine that harvests grain crops. The name derives from its combining three separate operations comprising harvesting—reaping, threshing, and winnowing—into a single process. A combine is a reaper and thresher wheel together to harvest, thresh and clean the grain from the straw in one operation. This allows the crop to be harvested more quickly and efficiently, and enables farmers to harvest larger amounts. According to the source of power used, combine harvester classified. 
To be more precise of the work of a combine may be stated as follows: 
1. Harvesting 
2. Feeding of crops to the threshing unit 
3. Threshing the seed from the head 
4. Separating the seed from the strong ex-line 
5. Cleaning the seed from the chaff.
 
Fig 2.13 Harvester





2.3.4 AGRICULTURAL DRONES
Perhaps one of the most promising agri tech advancements is the use of agricultural drones in smart farming. Also known as UAVs (unmanned aerial vehicles), drones are better equipped than airplanes and satellites to collect agricultural data. Apart from surveillance capabilities, drones can also perform a vast number of tasks that previously required human labor: planting crops, fighting pests and infections, agriculture spraying, crop monitoring, etc. 
 
Fig 2.14 Agricultural drones
Drone technology is a phenomenal innovation that continues to have far-reaching effects across today’s society, transforming our lives and the way we do business.The agricultural industry seems to have embraced drone technology with open arms, using these advanced tools to transform modern farming.
High-tech drones allow farmers, and the drone pilots that operate them, to increase efficiency in certain aspects of the farming process. From crop monitoring to planting, livestock management, crop spraying, irrigation mapping, and more.

2.3.5 BENEFITS OF AGRICULTURAL AUTOMATION
         
Consumer Benefit
    Consumer preferences are shifting towards organic and sustainably-produced products. With automation technology, produce reaches consumers faster, fresher, and more sustainably. Increase in productivity from automation increases the yield and rate of production, therefore reducing costs for consumers.

Labor Efficiency
   Labor is over 50% of the cost to grow a farm and 55% of farmers say they are impacted by labor shortages. Because of this, 31% of farmers are moving to less labor-intensive crops. However, there is huge potential with harvest robots. Routine tasks can be automated with robotics technology, reducing labor costs and manpower needed amidst a labor shortage in the agriculture industry. A single strawberry robot harvester has the potential to pick a 25-acre area in 3 days and replace 30 farm workers.

Reduced Environmental Footprint
  Farm automation practices can make agriculture more profitable while also reducing the ecological footprint of farming at the same time. Site-specific application software can reduce the amount of pesticides and fertilizer used while also reducing greenhouse gas emissions.

                                           

CHAPTER 3
3.1 GREEN HOUSE AUTOMATION USING IOT
      Smart greenhouse is a farming technique, which helps user to monitor and control the growth condition of the plant and to optimize the growing process of the plants. In addition, the major goal of smart greenhouse is to implement a system which will allow user to remotely monitor all conditions required for the growth of the crops.
Smart greenhouse provides different benefits such as maintaining a micro-climate environment for the crops, optimizing the yielding process, and minimizing manual intervention. In addition, it provides farmers with data on external environment and type of soil, which reduces the risk of pests and avoids disease outbreak.
Furthermore, an increase in need for organic food across the globe has replaced traditional farming with adoption of smart greenhouse.
 
Fig 3.1 Smart green house
Greenhouse Automation System is the technical approach in which the farmers in the rural areas will be benefited by automatic monitoring and control of greenhouse environment. It replaces the direct supervision of the human. Greenhouse is a building where plants are grown in a controlled manner. Nowadays due to urbanization and lack of land availability there is a great need to construct the Greenhouses which will be reserved mainly for growing crops. With the advancement of technology, we can control and monitor the multiple Greenhouses using IoT from the central location.
Greenhouse farming is a technique that enhances the yield of crops, vegetables, fruits etc. Greenhouses control environmental parameters in two ways; either through manual intervention or a proportional control mechanism. However, since manual intervention has disadvantages such as production loss, energy loss, and labor cost, these methods are less effective. A smart greenhouse through IoT embedded systems not only monitors intelligently but also controls the climate. Thereby eliminating any need for human intervention.

 
Fig 3.2 Greenhouse monitoring using iot

3.1.1 BENEFITS OF SMART GREENHOUSE

1. Maintain Ideal Micro-Climate Conditions
    IoT sensors allow farmers to collect various data points at unprecedented granularity. They provide real-time information on critical climate factors including, temperature, humidity, light exposure and carbon dioxide across the greenhouse. This data prompts relevant adjustments to HVAC and lighting settings to maintain the best conditions for plant growth while driving energy efficiency. In parallel, motion/acceleration sensors help identify doors that are unintentionally left open to ensure a strictly controlled environment.
2. Enhance Irrigation and Fertilization Practices
    In addition to ambient parameters, smart greenhouses enable farmers to stay on top of their crop conditions. This ensures irrigation and fertilization activities are on par with the actual needs of cultivated plants for maximized yields. For example, readings on soil volumetric water content indicate whether crops are under water stress. Likewise, measurements of soil salinity give useful insights on fertilization requirements. Based on this data, sprinkler and spraying systems can be automatically turned on to address real-time crop demands while minimizing manual intervention.
3. Control Infection and Avoid Disease Outbreak
    Crop infection is a persistent farming challenge, with every outbreak taking a heavy toll on the crop margins. Agrochemical treatments are available at hand, but farmers often don’t know the best time to apply them. Applications done too frequently raise ecological, safety and cost concerns, while failing to use treatments could lead to detrimental disease outbreaks. With the help of a machine learning platform, data on greenhouse environments, external weather and soil characteristics reveal valuable insights into existing risks of pest and fungi. Leveraging this information, farmers can apply treatments exactly when needed to ensure a healthy crop at the lowest chemical expense.

4. Prevent Thefts and Improve Security
    Greenhouses with high-value crops are a vulnerable target for thieves. As traditional surveillance networks with CCTVs are expensive to implement, many growers don’t have an effective security system in place. In this context, IoT sensors in smart greenhouses provide an affordable infrastructure to monitor door status and detect suspicious activities. Connected with an automated alarm system, they instantly notify growers when a security issue arises.

 
                                    Fig 3.3 Benefits of smart greenhouse
3.2 WORKING OF SMART GREEN HOUSE
       
Fig 3.4 Working of smart green house

The system uses Internet of Things technology, due to this the parameters can be controlled from anywhere in the world. This enables the farmers to grow crops properly. The humidity threshold can also be changes as per the crop requirement. Use of this system ensures better farming for the user.
The sensors in the green house collects data from various parameters and sends it to the iot device. The collected data is send to the cloud through internet and stored in the database and the data from the data base is show in the web application.


3.3 NODE MCU – ESP8266
       Node MCU is an open source firmware for which open source prototyping board designs are available. The name "Node MCU" combines "node" and "MCU" (micro-controller unit). The term "Node MCU" strictly speaking refers to the firmware rather than the associated development kits.
 
                                                              Fig 3.5 ESP8266
It includes firmware that runs on the ESP8266 Wi-Fi SoC from Espressif Systems, and hardware which is based on the ESP-12 module.
The Node MCU ESP8266 development board comes with the ESP-12E module containing ESP8266 chip having Tensilica Xtensa 32-bit LX106 RISC microprocessor. This microprocessor supports RTOS and operates at 80MHz to 160 MHz adjustable clock frequency. Node MCU has 128 KB RAM and 4MB of Flash memory to store data and programs. Its high processing power with in-built Wi-Fi / Bluetooth and Deep Sleep Operating features make it ideal for IoT projects.
Node MCU can be powered using Micro USB jack and VIN pin (External Supply Pin). It supports UART, SPI, and I2C interface.
 
Fig 3.6 Basic components in ESP-8266

The Node MCU Development Board can be easily programmed with Arduino IDE since it is easy to use.
Programming Node MCU with the Arduino IDE will hardly take 5-10 minutes. All you need is the Arduino IDE, a USB cable and the Node MCU board itself. You can check this Getting Started Tutorial for Node MCU to prepare your Arduino IDE for Node MCU.
Once Arduino IDE is installed on the computer, connect the board with the computer using the USB cable. Now open the Arduino IDE and choose the correct board by selecting Tools>Boards>NodeMCU1.0 (ESP-12E Module), and choose the correct Port by selecting Tools>Port. To get it started with the Node MCU board and blink the built-in LED, load the example code by selecting Files>Examples>Basics>Blink. 

          3.3.1 PIN CONFIGURATION
 
Fig 3.7 pin out diagram


Table 3.1 pin configuration
Pin Category	Name	Description

Power	
Micro-USB, 3.3V, GND, Vin
	Micro-USB: Node MCU can be powered through the USB port
3.3V: Regulated 3.3V can be supplied to this pin to power the board
GND: Ground pins
Vin: External Power Supply

Control Pins	EN, RST	The pin and the button resets the microcontroller
Analog Pin	A0	Used to measure analog voltage in the range of 0-3.3V
GPIO Pins	GPIO1 to GPIO16	Node MCU has 16 general purpose input-output pins on its board
SPI Pins	SD1, CMD, SD0, CLK	Node MCU has four pins available for SPI communication.
UART Pins	TXD0, RXD0, TXD2, RXD2	Node MCU has two UART interfaces, UART0 (RXD0 & TXD0) and UART1 (RXD1 & TXD1). UART1 is used to upload the firmware/program.
I2C Pins		Node MCU has I2C functionality pin. 

3.3.2 SPECIFICATION & FEATURES
•	Microcontroller: Tensilica 32-bit RISC CPU Xtensa LX106
•	Operating Voltage: 3.3V
•	Input Voltage: 7-12V
•	Digital I/O Pins (DIO): 16
•	Analog Input Pins (ADC): 1
•	UARTs: 1
•	SPIs: 1
•	I2Cs: 1
•	Flash Memory: 4 MB
•	SRAM: 64 KB
•	Clock Speed: 80 MHz
•	USB-TTL based on CP2102 is included onboard, Enabling Plug n Play
•	PCB Antenna
•	Small Sized module to fit smartly inside your IoT projects
       

3.4 SENSORS USED IN SMART GREENHOUSE
       A number of sensing technologies are used in precision agriculture, providing data that helps farmers monitor and optimize crops, as well as adapt to changing environmental factors including: 
Optical sensors have been developed to determine clay, organic matter, and moisture content of the soil.
       
3.4.1 BAROMETER SENSOR
         A barometric pressure sensor is a sensor that detects atmospheric pressure. A typical example of a barometric pressure sensor is a piezo-resistive type that uses silicon semiconductor.
The GY-BMP280 Barometer Sensor is a breakout board for Bosch BMP280 high-precision and low-power digital barometer. It can be used to measure temperature and atmospheric pressure accurately. It can be connected to a microcontroller with I2C.

 
                                                  Fig 3.8 Barometer sensor

Pin configuration:
Table 3.2 Barometer pin configuration
Pin no	Pin name	Pin description
1	VCC	Power source of 3.3VDC
2	GND	Ground
3	SCL	Serial clock
4	SDA	Serial data
5	CSB	CSB pin to GND to have SPI and to VCC(3.3V) for I2C. It’s an input to the chip.
6	SDO	Serial Data Out / Master In Slave Out pin, for data sent from the BMP280 to your process
3.4.2 UV INDEX SENSOR
         It uses a UV photodiode, which can detect the 240-370nm range of light (which covers UVB and most of UVA spectrum). The signal from the photodiode is very small level, in the nano-ampere level, hence an op amp to amplify the signal to a more Manageable volt-level.
 
Features:
•	Low power consumption: Supply voltage 2.5V ~ 5V, operating current is micro amps
•	Linear Good
•	High Sensitivity
•	High stability
•	Detection range: 240nm-370nm
•	Large angle: 130 degrees

 
Fig 3.9 UV index sensor

Pin configuration
•	GND: 0V (Ground connection)
•	VCC: 3.3V to 5.5V (5mA current consumption)
•	OUT: 0V to 1V ( 0 to 10 UV Index)
3.4.3 AIR QUALITY SENSOR
         Air quality sensor for detecting a wide range of gases, including NH3, NOx, alcohol, benzene, smoke and CO2. Ideal for use in office or factory. MQ135 gas sensor has high sensitivity to Ammonia, Sulfide and Benze steam, also sensitive to smoke and other harmful gases.
 
                                                       Fig 3.10 Air quality sensor

Pin configuration
•	VCC - Used to power the sensor, Generally the operating voltage is +5V.
•	GND - Used to connect the module to system ground.
•	Digital out - You can also use this sensor to get digital output from this pin, by setting a threshold value using the potentiometer.
•	Analog out - This pin outputs 0-5V analog voltage based on the intensity of the gas.





3.4.4 SOUND SENSOR
         A sound sensor is defined as a module that detects sound waves through its intensity and converting it to electrical signals.
The working principle of this sensor is related to human ears. Because human eye includes a diaphragm and the main function of this diaphragm is, it uses the vibrations and changes into signals. Whereas in this sensor, it uses a microphone and the main function of this is, it uses the vibrations and changes into current otherwise voltage.
Generally, it includes a diaphragm which is designed with magnets that are twisted with metal wire. When sound signals hit the diaphragm, then magnets within the sensor vibrates & simultaneously current can be stimulated from the coils.

 
                                                         Fig 3.11 Sound sensor

Pin configuration
•	Pin1 (VCC): 3.3V DC to 5V DC
•	Pin2 (GND): This is aground pin
•	Pin3 (DO): This is an output pin
3.4.5 LIGHT SENSOR
         The light sensor is a passive devices that convert this “light energy” whether visible or in the infra-red parts of the spectrum into an electrical signal output. Light sensors are more commonly known as “Photoelectric Devices” or “Photo Sensors” because the convert light energy (photons) into electricity (electrons).
 
                                                       Fig 3.12 light sensor

Pin configuration
 
Fig 3.13 Light configuration pin out
•	VCC - Power supply for the module can be 2.4V to 3.6V, typically 3.0V is used.
•	GND - Ground of the module, connected to ground of the circuit.
•	SCL - Serial Clock Line, used to provide clock pulse for I2C communication.
•	SDA - Serial Data Address, used to transfer the data through I2C communication.
•	ADDR - Device address pin, used to select the address when more than two modules are connected.
3.4.6 RAIN DROP SENSOR
         Raindrop Sensor is a tool used for sensing rain. It consists of two modules, a rain board that detects the rain and a control module, which compares the analog value, and converts it to a digital value. The raindrop sensors can be used in the automobile sector to control the windshield wipers automatically, in the agriculture sector to sense rain and it is also used in home automation systems.

 
Fig 3.14 Rain drop sensor & pin out


Pin configuration
•	VCC - Connects supply voltage- 5V.
•	GND - Connected to ground.
•	A0 - Analog pin to get analog output.
•	D0 - Digital pin to get digital output.


3.4.7 WATER LEVEL SENSOR
         Water level indicators work by using sensor probes to indicate water levels in a storage tank. These probes send information back to the control panel to trigger an alarm or indicator. As mentioned above, the control panel can be programmed to automatically turn on your pump to refill the water again.

 
Fig 3.15 Water level sensor

Pin configuration
•	S (Signal) pin is an analog output that will be connected to one of the analog inputs on your Arduino.
•	+ (VCC) pin supplies power for the sensor. It is recommended to power the sensor with between 3.3V – 5V.
•	– (GND) is a ground connection.


3.4.8 SOIL MOISTURE SENSOR
          A small charge is placed on the electrodes and electrical resistance through the sensor is measured. As water is used by plants or as the soil moisture decreases, water is drawn from the sensor and resistance increases. Conversely, as soil moisture increases, resistance decreases.

 
                              Fig 3.16 Soil moisture sensor

Pin configuration
•	VCC - The Vcc pin powers the module, typically with +5V.
•	GND - Power Supply Ground.
•	DO - Digital Out Pin for Digital Output.
•	AO - Analog Out Pin for Analog Output.





3.5 CLOUD TECHNOLOGY
      Cloud computing is the delivery of different services through the Internet. These resources include tools and applications like data storage, servers, databases, networking, and software.
 
Fig 3.17 Cloud technology

Cloud computing is the on-demand availability of computer system resources, especially data storage and computing power, without direct active management by the user. The term is generally used to describe data centers available to many users over the Internet.
It uses a software, middleware, to ensure seamless connectivity between devices/computers linked via cloud computing. Cloud computing service providers usually maintain multiple copies of the data to mitigate instances of security threats, data loss, data breach, etc.

3.5.1 DIFFERENT TYPES OF CLOUD
Mini cloud
Alibaba, Amazon, Microsoft, and Google offer some of the larger cloud computing services currently on the market. Research firm Gartner reported that Amazon Web Services and Microsoft Azure possess over 60% of the market combined in 2018. While large clients may require the capabilities offered by these tech giants, smaller businesses often do not need as much computing power or storage. As such, they can take advantage of mini clouds.
More likely to have dozens of locations rather than hundreds, mini cloud companies cannot compete against the big cloud services based on size. However, they generally offer fast speeds, easy-to-use interfaces, and lower costs. Some mini cloud companies are even positioning themselves to fill niches in the industry by providing heavily customizable virtual machines, efficiency experts, and more.
Multi-cloud
Another option for businesses is the multi-cloud, which combines public cloud services from multiple vendors. This popular approach—which Nominet found 48% of surveyed organizations use—allows organizations to avoid being locked in with a single vendor. This flexibility also allows clients to meet geographic demand by having providers in numerous countries.
Hybrid cloud
Similar to the multi-cloud, cloud computing companies have realized that some clients do not want to house all of their data in one virtual space. This has resulted in an increase in hybrid cloud offerings. Because hybrid clouds allow workloads to move between third party, private, and public clouds as needed, businesses have more options to choose how they would like to share their data.
3.6 CLOUD PLATFORMS
       There are several types of cloud platforms some the majorly used platforms are listed below:
3.6.1 GOOGLE CLOUD PLATFORM
         Google Cloud Platform, offered by Google, is a suite of cloud computing services that runs on the same infrastructure that Google uses internally for its end-user products, such as Google Search, Gmail, file storage, and YouTube.
Google Cloud Platform is a provider of computing resources for deploying and operating applications on the web. Its specialty is providing a place for individuals and enterprises to build and run software, and it uses the web to connect to the users of that software.

 
Fig 3.18 GCP




Manage and get insights into everything that powers your cloud application — including web applications, data analysis, virtual machines, data store, databases, networking, and developer services. Cloud Console helps you deploy, scale, and diagnose production issues in a simple web-based interface.

 
Fig 3.19 Google cloud platform user interface






3.6.2 MICROSOFT AZURE IOT SUITE
         Azure IoT Hub provides a cloud-hosted solution back end to connect virtually any device. Extend your solution from the cloud to the edge with per-device
         The Azure Internet of Things (IoT) is a collection of Microsoft-managed cloud services that connect, monitor, and control billions of IoT assets. In simpler terms, an IoT solution is made up of one or more IoT devices that communicate with one or more back-end services hosted in the cloud.
Azure IoT Hub is Microsoft's Internet of Things connector to the cloud. It's a fully managed cloud service that enables reliable and secure bi-directional communications between millions of IoT devices and a solution back end. Cloud-to-device messages let you send commands and notifications to your connected devices.
      
 
Fig 3.20 Microsoft azure iot suit
3.6.3 AMAZON WEB SERVICE
         Amazon Web Services (AWS) is a secure cloud services platform, offering compute power, database storage, content delivery and other functionality to help businesses scale and grow. Running web and application servers in the cloud to host dynamic websites.
Amazon Web Services offers a broad set of global cloud-based products including compute, storage, databases, analytics, networking, mobile, developer tools, management tools, IoT, security and enterprise applications. These services help organizations move faster, lower IT costs, and scale.
 
Fig 3.21 Amazon web services

3.6.4 IBM WATSON
         IBM Watson™ IoT Platform is a fully managed, cloud-hosted service that makes it simple to derive value from Internet of Things (IoT) devices topic in the full Watson IoT Platform documentation.
The hub of the IBM IoT approach; set up and manage your connected devices so your apps can access live and historical data.
Machine Learning, Data Science, and Predictive Analytics techniques are in strong demand. Now, this all-in-one platform for data science is free to students and faculty with unlimited use with Watson Studio Desktop.
  
Fig 3.22 IBM Watson cloud platform



3.6.5 ORACLE IOT
         Oracle Internet of Things (IoT) Cloud Service is a managed Platform as a Service (PaaS) cloud-based offering that helps you make critical business decisions and strategies by allowing you to connect your devices to the cloud, analyze data from those devices in real time, and integrate your data with enterprise.
Oracle IoT Cloud Service uses native Spark Java APIs to perform the analysis. Developers can use the Batch and Streaming spark APIs to write the analytics processing logic. Developers can also import external APIs and use them in their application. You can deploy and manage your applications in production environments.

 
Fig 3.23 oracle cloud


3.7 WEB APPLICATION
      A web application is a computer program that utilizes web browsers and web technology to perform tasks over the Internet.
Web applications are usually coded in browser-supported language such as JavaScript and HTML as these languages rely on the browser to render the program executable. Some of the applications are dynamic, requiring server-side processing. Others are completely static with no processing required at the server.
The web application requires a web server to manage requests from the client, an application server to perform the tasks requested, and, sometimes, a database to store the information. Application server technology ranges from ASP.NET, ASP and ColdFusion, to PHP and JSP.
Here's what a typical web application flow looks like:
•	User triggers a request to the web server over the Internet, either through a web browser or the application’s user interface
•	Web server forwards this request to the appropriate web application server
•	Web application server performs the requested task – such as querying the database or processing the data – then generates the results of the requested data
•	Web application server sends results to the web server with the requested information or processed data
•	Web server responds back to the client with the requested information that then appears on the user’s display.


3.7.1 USER INTERFACE
         The user interface (UI) is the point of human-computer interaction and communication in a device. This can include display screens, keyboards, a mouse and the appearance of a desktop. It is also the way through which a user interacts with an application or a website.
The goal of user interface design is to make the user's interaction as simple and efficient as possible, in terms of accomplishing user goals
Simply put, a good User Interface is important because it can turn potential visitors to buyers as it facilitates interactions between the user and your website or web application. The UI not only focuses on the aesthetics but also maximizes responsiveness, efficiency, and accessibility of a website.
 
                                                 Fig 3.24 user interface
 
                                             Fig 3.25 website dashboard











CHAPTER 4

4.1 RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
      The hardware setup of the proffered system consisting of the iot ESP-8266 connected with temperature sensor, barometer sensor, uv index sensor, sound sensor, air quality sensor, soil moisture sensor, water level sensor, rain drop sensor, motors are used along with the cooling fans the data is collected from the sensors are transmitted through internet to the cloud and the variations are shown in the website as the real time data base.
      
 4.1.1 HARDWARE OUTPUT

 
Fig 4.1 Hardware output

4.1.2 WEB APP OUTPUTS
       
 
Fig 4.2 Output temperature

 
Fig 4.3 Output gas level

 
Fig 4.4 Sound output

 
Fig 4.5 Output pressure


 
Fig 4.6 Output soil, climate & sunlight

 
Fig 4.7 Output altitude, tank & light





CHAPTER 5

5.1 CONCLUSION
       The automated system for the green house management is done by employing the sensors of temperature, moisture, light, humidity, uv, raindrop, sound & water level for the monitoring of the environmental changes to regulate the driver circuits to maintain the normal climatic conditions within the green house. 
The remote monitoring and the control of the green house is enabled in the system using the IOT platform and the cloud services that store the information and sends the data to the web app. The Wi-Fi connectivity in built in the Node MCU enables an easy information transfer to the cloud. The Google Cloud IOT core used in the system enables the conveyance of the information gathered about the green house to the farmers.

5.2 FUTURE SCOPE
Future work would be focused more on increasing sensors on this  system to 

Fetch more data especially with regard to Pest Control and by also integrating GPS module in this system to enhance this Agriculture IoT Technology to full-fledged Agriculture Precision ready product. 
Using data mining and big data analysis, we can collect data for different parameter helping us to answer which crops are better suited for this particular places and which season. Using sensors and device on the livestock can maintain the health which directly benefit farmers.


REFERENCE
[1] Sreekantha, D. K., and A. M. Kavya. "Agricultural crop monitoring using IOT-a study." In 2017 11th International Conference on Intelligent Systems and Control (ISCO), pp. 134-139. IEEE, 2017. 
[2] Suma, N., Sandra Rhea Samson, S. Saranya, G. Shanmugapriya, and R. Subhashri. "IOT based smart agriculture monitoring system." International Journal on Recent and Innovation Trends in computing and communication 5, no. 2 (2017): 177-181.
 [3] Yoon, Chiyurl, Miyoung Huh, Shin-Gak Kang, Juyoung Park, and Changkyu Lee. "Implement smart farm with IoT technology." In 2018 20th International Conference on Advanced Communication Technology (ICACT), pp. 749- 752. IEEE, 2018. 
[4] Vatari, Sheetal, Aarti Bakshi, and Tanvi Thakur. "Green house by using IOT and cloud computing." In 2016 IEEE International Conference on Recent Trends in Electronics, Information & Communication Technology (RTEICT), pp. 246-250. IEEE, 2016. 
[5] Linlin, Qin, Lu Linjian, Shi Chun, Wu Gang, and Wang Yunlong. "Implementation of IOT-based greenhouse intelligent monitoring system." Transactions of the Chinese Society for Agricultural Machinery 46, no. 3 (2015): 261- 267.
 [6] Vimal, P. V., and K. S. Shivaprakasha. "IOT based greenhouse environment monitoring and controlling system using Arduino platform." In 2017 International Conference on Intelligent Computing, Instrumentation and Control Technologies (ICICICT), pp. 1514-1519. IEEE, 2017. 
[7] Ferrández-Pastor, Francisco, Juan García-Chamizo, Mario Nieto-Hidalgo, Jerónimo Mora-Pascual, and José MoraMartínez. "Developing ubiquitous sensor network platform using internet of things: Application in precision agriculture." Sensors 16, no. 7 (2016): 1141. 
[8] Zhao, Ji-chun, Jun-feng Zhang, Yu Feng, and Jian-xin Guo. "The study and application of the IOT technology in agriculture." In 2010 3rd International Conference on Computer Science and Information Technology, vol. 2, pp. 462- 465. IEEE, 2010. 
[9] Muthupavithran, S., S. Akash, and P. Ranjithkumar. "Greenhouse monitering using internet of things." International Journal of Innovative Research in Computer Science and Engineering 2, no. 3 (2016). 
[10] Mekala, Mahammad Shareef, and P. Viswanathan. "A Survey: Smart agriculture IoT with cloud computing." In 2017 international conference on microelectronic devices, circuits and systems (ICMDCS), pp. 1-7. IEEE, 2017. 
